Application Access (#4791)
gravitational/teleport: docs/5.0/application-access.md

---
title: Application Access Guide
description: How to set up and configure Teleport for Application access with SSO and RBAC
---

# Teleport Application Access

## Introduction

> Application Access has been designed to provide secure access to internal dashboards and applications. Building on Teleports strong foundations of security and identity. You can now put applications onto the internet safely and securely.

Reviewer: Application access provides access to internal dashboards and applications without using VPNs.

> Here are a few things you might want to secure with Teleport Application Access

Reviewer: You can secure any web application using application access:

> * Internal Control Panels

Reviewer: * Internal control panels

* Wikis / Tooling that's only available on the VPN.

> * Access to the Kubernetes Dashboard

Reviewer: * Infra dashboards - Kubernetes, Grafana

> * Developer tools. Such as Jenkins, or the Atlassian stack.

Reviewer: * Developer tools, such as Jenkins, Gitlab or Ops genie

#### Hardware Requirements

> We recommend reviewing our [How it works](https://gravitational.com/teleport/how-it-works/) page to get a good overview of how Teleport works. You'll need a small VM or even a Raspberry Pi to run Teleport (Auth and Proxy).  This will be the brains and gateway to your applications.

Reviewer: [How it works](https://gravitational.com/teleport/how-it-works/) page will give you a good overview of the setup.

Reviewer: ~~This will be the brains and gateway to your applications.~~

#### Networking Requirements

!!! note "Why do I see SSH Ports for Teleport Application Access?"

>     Below is a list of ports required for Teleport Application Access to work but why SSH ports? The reason for this is Teleport uses reverse tunnels to obtain access to these applications.

Reviewer: Teleport uses SSH reverse tunnels to connect applications to the proxy. This is why configuration below mentions SSH ports.

|Port      | Service    | Description
|----------|------------|-------------------------------------------

> |3023      | Proxy      | SSH port clients connect to used for the reverse tunnel.

Reviewer: SSH port for clients who need `tsh login`

> |3024      | Proxy      | SSH port used to create "reverse SSH tunnels" from behind-firewall environments into a trusted proxy server.

Reviewer: remove quotes, reverse SSH tunnel is an established term

> |3024      | Proxy      | SSH port used to create "reverse SSH tunnels" from behind-firewall environments into a trusted proxy server.

Reviewer: SSH port for clients. Verify that we multiplex SSH port and web 3080 port and we can remove it from this guide.

Author: @russjones Can you double check this please.

> |3025      | Auth       | SSH port used by the Auth Service to serve its API to other nodes in a cluster.

Reviewer: Auth service uses 3025 port to serve TLS, not SSH. This was deprecated in 2.0

|3080      | Proxy      | HTTPS connection to authenticate `tsh` users and web users into the cluster. The same connection is used to serve a Web UI.

> #### TLS Requirements

Reviewer: This section is missing content.

**Example Legacy App**</br>
A device such as an load balancer might come with a control panel, but it doesn't' have any auth and can only be access via a privileged network. These applications are supported and can extend access beyond your network.

Other example legacy apps.

+ An internal admin tool
+ Control panel for networking devices

**Example Modern App**</br>
Teleport Application Access supports all modern applications, these could be built in-house or off-the-shelf software such as jenkins, Kubernetes Dashboard and Jupyter workbooks.

+ Kubernetes Internal Dashboard
+ Grafana
+ Jupyter notebooks
+ In-house Single Page Apps (SPA)
+ SPA with custom Json Web Token support (JWT)

## Teleport Application Service Setup

Teleport
**Define `/etc/teleport.yaml`**

| Variable to replace | Description  |
|-|-|
| `nodename` | Name of node Teleport is running on |
| `auth_token` | Static Join Token |
| `public_addr` | Public URL and Port for Teleport |
| `https_key_file` | LetsEncrypt Key File ( Wildcard Cert )  |
| `https_cert_file` | LetsEncrypt Key File ( Wildcard Cert ) |

```
teleport:
  nodename: i-083e63d0daecd1315
  data_dir: /var/lib/teleport

>   auth_token: 4c7e15

Reviewer: this sample token is too short

>   auth_servers:

Reviewer: for single node setup, this is is not necessary, and is actually wrong.

  - 127.0.0.1:3025
auth_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:3025
  tokens:
  - proxy,node,app:4c7e15
ssh_service:
  enabled: "false"
proxy_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:3023
  web_listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:3080

>   tunnel_listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:3024

Reviewer: if this is not set, 3024 will merge with 3080. Also do we really need all this setup in the first sample. Let's make the first sample very short and add full config with possible values at the end.

  public_addr: teleport.asteroid.earth:3080
  ## Example using a wildcard cert.

>   https_keypairs:

Reviewer: dupe

  https_keypairs:
  - key_file: /etc/letsencrypt/live/teleport.example.com/privkey.pem
  - cert_file: /etc/letsencrypt/live/teleport.example.com/fullchain.pem
  - key_file: /etc/letsencrypt/live/*.teleport.example.com/privkey.pem
  - cert_file: /etc/letsencrypt/live/*.teleport.example.com/fullchain.pem
```
#### [ Optional ] Obtain a new App Token

> In the above example we've hard coded a join token 4c7e15. You can use this to join apps or create a dynamic token using the tctl command below.

Reviewer: remove static token then, if we use the dynamic token flow here.

```bash
$ tctl tokens add --type=app
```

| Variable to replace | Description  |
|-|-|
| `auth_servers` | Address of Auth or Proxy Service setup above |
| `auth_token` | Token used to connect to other Teleport processes  |

```yaml
teleport:
  # nodename of machine running process.
  nodename: wellington
  # The Auth token `tctl tokens add --type=app` or the static token. 4c7e15
  auth_token: "4c7e15"
  # This is the location of the Teleport Auth Server or Public Proxy
  auth_servers:
    - teleport.example.com:3080
auth_service:
  enabled: no
proxy_service:
  enabled: no
ssh_service:
   enabled: no

> # The app_service is new

Reviewer: mmm yes

app_service:
   enabled: yes

>     debug_app: true

Reviewer: what is this debug app, let's explain.

>    apps:

Reviewer: may be split this into two parts. The first one with the debug app so they can quickly test and verify. Show the screenshot of what to expect. Second part with connecting k8s dashboard + config so they can edit and restart.

   - name: "internal-app"
     uri: "http://10.0.1.27:8000"
   - name: "kubernetes-dashboard"
     # This version requires a public_addr for all Apps, these
     #  applications should have a certificate and DNS setup
     public_addr: "example.com"
     # Optional Labels
     labels:

>         name: "jwt"

Reviewer: what's this label mean?

>      # Optional Dynamic Labels

Reviewer: What do they do?

     commands:
     - name: "os"
       command: ["/usr/bin/uname"]
       period: "5s"

>    - name: "arris"

Reviewer: what name means how is it used

     uri: "http://localhost:3001"
     public_addr: "arris.example.com"
   # Teleport Application Access can be used to proxy any HTTP Endpoint
   # Note: Name can't include any spaces
   - name: "hackernews"
     uri: "https://news.ycombinator.com"
     public_addr: "hn.example.com"
```

## Advanced Options

### Customize Public Address

```yaml
   - name: "jira"
     uri: "https://localhost:8001"

>      public_addr: "jira.example.com"

Reviewer: what happens when you do it.

```

### Deeplink to Subdirectory
Some Applications are available on a Subdirectory, examples include Kubernetes Dashboard.

```yaml
   - name: "k8s"
     uri: "http://10.0.1.60:8001/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/https:kubernetes-dashboard:/proxy/#/overview?namespace=default"
     public_addr: "k8s.example.com"
```
### Rewrite

> We provide simple rewrites. This is helpful for applications

Reviewer: add more text, what applications, for example `This is helpful for applications that redirect to a different hostname. You can override the redirect to point back to teleport public address`

```yaml
   - name: "jira"
     uri: "https://localhost:8001"
     public_addr: "jira.example.com"
     rewrite:
        # Rewrite the "Location" header on redirect responses replacing the
        # host with the public address of this application.
        redirect:
           - "localhost"
           - "jenkins.internal.dev"
```

## View Applications in Teleport

> `https://[cluster-url]:3080/web/cluster/[cluster-name]/apps`

Reviewer: Why do we promote 3080 and not 443 as a default.

Reviewer 2: You can't run on 443 without being root or giving additional capabilities (which is probably outside of the scope of the documentation to describe). Best practice is not to run as root.

## Integrating with JWTs

### Introduction to JWTs
JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard that defines a secure way to transfer information bewteen parties as a JSON Object.

For a in-depth explanation please visit [https://jwt.io/introduction/](https://jwt.io/introduction/)

Teleports JSON Web Token (JWT) includes three sections:

+ Header
+ Payload
+ Signature

### Header

**Example Header**
```json
{
  "alg": "RS256",
  "typ": "JWT"
}
```

### Payload

**Example Payload**

```json
{
  "aud": [
    "http://127.0.0.1:34679"
  ],
  "exp": 1603943800,
  "iss": "aws",
  "nbf": 1603835795,
  "roles": [
    "admin"
  ],
  "sub": "benarent",
  "username": "benarent"
}
```
**TODO Add info about claims etc.

> Teleport will

Reviewer: Customers are asking about token TTL and validation. What happens when token expires @russjones

Reviewer 3: Token TTL matches the certificate TTL exactly and validation happens with the keys from the jwks endpoint.

Internal applications should never receive a request with a expired token, because by then the certificate will have been revoked and the request will not be forwarded to internal application

---
title: Application Access Guide
description: How to set up and configure Teleport for Application access with SSO and RBAC
---

# Teleport Application Access

## Introduction

> Teleport Application Access has been designed to provide secure access to internal dashboards and applications. Building on Teleports strong foundations of security and identity. You can now put applications onto the internet safely and securely.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Teleport Application Access has been designed to provide secure access to internal dashboards and applications, building on Teleport's strong foundations of security and identity. You can now put applications onto the internet safely and securely.
```

You can secure any web application using application access:

* Internal control panels
* Wikis / Tooling that's only available on the VPN.
* Infra dashboards - Kubernetes, Grafana

> * Developer tools, such as Jenkins, Gitlab or Ops genie

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Developer tools, such as Jenkins, Gitlab or Opsgenie
```

> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

#### Hardware Requirements
[How it works](https://gravitational.com/teleport/how-it-works/) page will give you a good overview of the setup.

#### Networking Requirements

!!! note "Why do I see SSH Ports for Application Access?"

>     Teleport uses SSH reverse tunnels to connect applications to the proxy. This is why configuration below mentions SSH ports.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Teleport uses SSH reverse tunnels to connect applications to the proxy. This is why the configuration below mentions SSH ports.
```

> |Port      | Service    | Description
> |----------|------------|-------------------------------------------
> |3023      | Proxy      | SSH port for clients who need tsh login
> |3024      | Proxy      | SSH port used to create reverse SSH tunnels from behind-firewall environments into a trusted proxy server.
> |3025      | Auth       | TLS port used by the Auth Service to serve its API to other nodes in a cluster.
> |443       | Proxy      | HTTPS connection to authenticate `tsh` users and web users into the cluster. The same connection is used to serve a Teleport UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Port      | Service    | Description
|----------|------------|-------------------------------------------
| 3023      | Proxy      | SSH port for clients who need tsh login
| 3024      | Proxy      | SSH port used to create reverse SSH tunnels from behind-firewall environments into a trusted proxy server.
| 3025      | Auth       | TLS port used by the Auth Service to serve its API to other nodes in a cluster.
| 3080      | Proxy      | HTTPS connection to authenticate `tsh` users and web users into the cluster. The same connection is used to serve a Teleport UI.
```

#### TLS Requirements

> TLS is required to secure Teleports Unified Access Plane and any connected applications. When setting up Teleport the minium requirement is a certificate for the proxy and a wild card certificate for it's sub-domain. This is where everyone will login to Teleport.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TLS is required to secure Teleport's Unified Access Plane and any connected applications. When setting up Teleport, the minimum requirement is a certificate for the proxy and a wildcard certificate for its sub-domain. This is where everyone will log into Teleport.
```

> Example: `teleport.example.com` will host the Access Plane. `*.teleport.example.com` will host all of the applications. e.g. `jenkins.teleport.example.com`. Teleport supports accessing these applications on other domains if required. Both DNS and the correct certificates need to be obtained for this to work.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Example: `teleport.example.com` will host the Access Plane. `*.teleport.example.com` will host all of the applications e.g. `jenkins.teleport.example.com`.

Teleport supports accessing these applications on other domains if required. DNS entries must be configured and the correct certificates need to be obtained for this to work.
```

```yaml
proxy_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:3023
  tunnel_listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:3024
  public_addr: teleport.example.com:443
  ## Example of two https keypairs.

>   https_keypairs:
>   - key_file: /etc/letsencrypt/live/teleport.example.com/privkey.pem
>   - cert_file: /etc/letsencrypt/live/teleport.example.com/fullchain.pem
>   - key_file: /etc/letsencrypt/live/*.teleport.example.com/privkey.pem
>   - cert_file: /etc/letsencrypt/live/*.teleport.example.com/fullchain.pem

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  https_keypairs:
  - key_file: /etc/letsencrypt/live/teleport.example.com/privkey.pem
    cert_file: /etc/letsencrypt/live/teleport.example.com/fullchain.pem
  - key_file: /etc/letsencrypt/live/*.teleport.example.com/privkey.pem
    cert_file: /etc/letsencrypt/live/*.teleport.example.com/fullchain.pem
```

```

!!! tip "Using Certbot to obtain Wildcard Certs"

    Let's Encrypt provides free wildcard certificates. If using [certbot](https://certbot.eff.org/)

>     with DNS challenge the below script will make setup easy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    with DNS challenge, the below script will make setup easy.
```

      ```sh
      certbot certonly --manual \
        --preferred-challenges=dns \
        --email [EMAIL] \

>         --server https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory \

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need to specify the server at all, `certbot` will handle that automatically.

```suggestion
```

        --agree-tos \
        --manual-public-ip-logging-ok \
        -d "teleport.example.com, *.teleport.example.com"
      ```

## Teleport Application Service Setup

There are two options for running Teleport, once installed it can be set up with
inline options using `teleport start` or using a `teleport.yaml` config file.

### Starting Teleport

| Variable to replace | Description  |
|-|-|
| `--roles=app` | The 'app' role will  setup the reverse proxy for applications |
| `--token` | A dynamic or static `app` token obtained from the root cluster |
| `--auth-server` | URL of the root cluster auth server or public proxy address |
| `--app-name` | Application name |
| `--app-uri` |  URI and Port of Application  |

```sh
teleport start --roles=app --token=xyz --auth-server=proxy.example.com:3080 \
    --app-name="example-app" \
    --app-uri="http://localhost:8080"
```

### Application Name

> When picking an application name it's important to make sure the name will make a valid sub-domain. After Teleport is running the application will be accissble at `app-name.proxy_pubic_addr.com` e.g. jenkins.teleport.example.com.  Teleport provides the ability to override public_addr. e.g jenkins.acme.com

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When picking an application name, it's important to make sure the name will make a valid sub-domain (<=63 characters, no spaces, only `A-Z a-z 0-9 _ -` allowed). 

After Teleport is running, the application will be accessible at `app-name.proxy_public_addr.com` e.g. `jenkins.teleport.example.com`.  Teleport also provides the ability to override `public_addr`. e.g `jenkins.acme.com` if you configure the appropriate DNS entry to point to the Teleport proxy server.
```

### Starting Teleport with config file

**Define `/etc/teleport.yaml`**

| Variable to replace | Description  |
|-|-|

> | `nodename` | Name of node Teleport is running on |

Reviewer 2: `nodename` defaults to the machine's hostname, there's no need to set it.

```suggestion
```

| `proxy_service: public_addr` | Public URL and Port for Teleport |
| `https_keypairs` | LetsEncrypt Key File ( Wildcard Cert )  |
| `-key_file` | LetsEncrypt Key File ( Wildcard Cert ) |
| `-cert_file` | LetsEncrypt Key File ( Wildcard Cert ) |
| `app_service: enabled: yes` | LetsEncrypt Key File ( Wildcard Cert ) |
| `apps: name` | LetsEncrypt Key File ( Wildcard Cert ) |

```yaml
teleport:

>   nodename: ip-172-31-13-139

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

  data_dir: /var/lib/teleport
  auth_token: a3aff444e182cf4ee5c2f78ad2a4cc47d8a30c95747a08f8
auth_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:3025
  tokens:
  - proxy,node,app:a3aff444e182cf4ee5c2f78ad2a4cc47d8a30c95747a08f8
ssh_service:
  enabled: "false"
app_service:
   enabled: yes
   # We've a small debug app that can be used to make sure application
   # Access is working correctly. It'll output JWTs so it can be useful
   # for when extending your application.
   debug_app: true
   apps:
   - name: "kubernetes-dashboard"
     # URI and port of application.
     uri: "https://localhost:3040"
     # Optional Public Addr
     public_addr: "example.com"
     # Optional Label: These can be used in combination with RBAC rules
     # to limit access to applications
     labels:
        env: "prod"
     # Optional Dynamic Labels
     commands:
     - name: "os"
       command: ["/usr/bin/uname"]
       period: "5s"
proxy_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:3023
  # Public Address default to port 3080 which doesn't
  # require Teleport starting as root
  public_addr: teleport.example.com:443
  # Example using a wildcard cert

>   https_keypairs:
>   - key_file: /etc/letsencrypt/live/teleport.example.com/privkey.pem
>   - cert_file: /etc/letsencrypt/live/teleport.example.com/fullchain.pem
>   - key_file: /etc/letsencrypt/live/*.teleport.example.com/privkey.pem
>   - cert_file: /etc/letsencrypt/live/*.teleport.example.com/fullchain.pem

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  https_keypairs:
  - key_file: /etc/letsencrypt/live/teleport.example.com/privkey.pem
    cert_file: /etc/letsencrypt/live/teleport.example.com/fullchain.pem
  - key_file: /etc/letsencrypt/live/*.teleport.example.com/privkey.pem
    cert_file: /etc/letsencrypt/live/*.teleport.example.com/fullchain.pem
```

For testing and debuging purposes we provide an inbuilt debugging app. This can be turned on use `debug_app: true`.

```yaml
app_service:
   enabled: yes
   debug_app: true
```
### Customize Public Address

```yaml
   - name: "jira"
     uri: "https://localhost:8001"
     public_addr: "jira.example.com"
```

### Deeplink to Subdirectory

Some Applications are available on a Subdirectory, examples include Kubernetes Dashboard.

```yaml
   - name: "k8s"
     uri: "http://10.0.1.60:8001/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/https:kubernetes-dashboard:/proxy/#/overview?namespace=default"
     public_addr: "k8s.example.com"
```
### Rewrite
We provide simple rewrites. This is helpful for applications

```yaml
   - name: "jira"
     uri: "https://localhost:8001"
     public_addr: "jira.example.com"
     rewrite:
        # Rewrite the "Location" header on redirect responses replacing the
        # host with the public address of this application.
        redirect:
           - "localhost"
           - "jenkins.internal.dev"
```

## View Applications in Teleport

`https://[cluster-url:cluster-port]/web/cluster/[cluster-name]/apps`

## Logging out of Applications

> When you log into an application you'll get a certificate and login session per your defined RBAC. If you want to force logout before this period you can force a log out by hitting `/teleport-logout`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you log into an application, you'll get a certificate and login session per your defined RBAC. If you want to force logout before this period you can force a log out by hitting the `/teleport-logout` endpoint:
```

https://internal-app.teleport.example.com/teleport-logout

## Integrating with JWTs

### Introduction to JWTs
JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard that defines a secure way to transfer information between parties as a JSON Object.

For a in-depth explanation please visit [https://jwt.io/introduction/](https://jwt.io/introduction/)

> Teleports JSON Web Token (JWT) includes three sections:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Teleport JSON Web Tokens (JWT) include three sections:
```

```
## Validate JWT with JSON Web Key Set (JWKS)

Teleport provides a jwks endpoint to verify that the JWT can be trusted. This endpoint is `https://[cluster-name]:3080/.well-known/jwks.json`

_Example jwks.json_

```json
{
  "keys": [
    {
      "kty": "rsa",
      "n": "xk-0VSVZY76QGqeN9TD-FJp32s8jZrpsalnRoFwlZ_JwPbbd5-_bPKcz8o2tv1eJS0Ll6ePxRCyK68Jz2UC4V4RiYaqJCRq_qVpDQMB1sQ7p9M-8qvT82FJ-Rv-W4RNe3xRmBSFDYdXaFm51Uk8OIYfv-oZ0kGptKpkNY390aJOzjHPH2MqSvhk9Xn8GwM8kEbpSllavdJCRPCeNVGJXiSCsWrOA_wsv_jqBP6g3UOA9GnI8R6HR14OxV3C184vb3NxIqxtrW0C4W6UtSbMDcKcNCgajq2l56pHO8In5GoPCrHqlo379LE5QqpXeeHj8uqcjeGdxXTuPrRq1AuBpvQ",
      "e": "AQAB",
      "alg": "RS256"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Example Applications

> As outlined in our introduction Application Access has been designed to support two types of applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As outlined in our introduction, Application Access has been designed to support two types of applications.
```

**Example Legacy App**</br>

> A device such as an load balancer might come with a control panel, but it doesn't' have any auth and can only be access via a privileged network. These applications are supported and can extend access beyond your network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A device such as a load balancer might come with a control panel, but it doesn't have any authentication and can only be access via a privileged network. These applications are supported and can extend access beyond your network.
```

> Other example legacy apps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Other example legacy apps:
```

+ An internal admin tool
+ Control panel for networking devices

**Example Modern App**</br>

> Teleport Application Access supports all modern applications, these could be built in-house or off-the-shelf software such as jenkins, Kubernetes Dashboard and Jupyter workbooks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Teleport Application Access supports all modern applications, these could be built in-house or off-the-shelf software such as Jenkins, Kubernetes Dashboard and Jupyter workbooks.
```

| Variable to replace | Description  |
|-|-|

> | `--roles=app` | The 'app' role will  setup the reverse proxy for applications |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `--roles=app` | The 'app' role will set up the reverse proxy for applications |
```

proxy_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:3023

>   # Public Address default to port 3080 which doesn't

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  # Public address defaults to port 3080 which doesn't
```
